# MMM: Modular MIDI Manipulator

## Overview & Basic Usage

This repository contains a few Python scripts that can be run on terminal or command line depending on the system, and all of them produces a new MIDI file in some way. There are currently five pieces of scripts, some of which do not need a MIDI file as an input, while some of them do.

Using MIDI files as both an input and an output makes the generation of MIDI files modular. In fact, a MIDI file generated by a piece of script can be then fed back to the same script and create something totally new! To run a script, simply do:

```
>>> python [script_name.py]
```

and the user interface will take it from there; just follow the steps and enjoy playing with MIDI files!

## Requirements

A Python environment is required for the program to work. It also requires `miditoolkit` and `numpy`, so in the terminal or command line, type this:

```
>>> pip install miditoolkit
>>> pip install numpy
```

## Modules

### Unison Sequence Generator

`unison.py` generates a sequence of a single note with fixed pitch and note value.

### Chromatic Sequence Generator

`chromatic.py` generates a sequence of chromatic notes with fixed note value.

### Fibonacci Sequence Generator

`fibonacci.py` generates a sequence of notes, and the user can choose whether it's the pitch or the duration (or both!) that is in the form of Fibonacci numbers.

### Stochastic Sequence Unit

`stochastic.py` takes two MIDI files as input. The first is used to create the probability distribution, while the second is the materials to be referenced from. For example, if you take output from `unison.py` as the first input and output from `chromatic.py` as the second input, you'll get a sequence of randomly chromatic notes with uniform probability (which the unison sequence creates).

### Markov Sequence Unit

`markov.py` is similar to `stochastic.py`, but now instead of independent randomness, a Markov chain is created based on the first MIDI file's note pitch and duration.